---
layout: post
title: ISAQC - Advanced Track Talk
date: 2023-09-16 17:00:00+0530
inline: false
related_posts: false
description: Talk on Exact Quantum Speed Limits
---
Hello, 

We will have a slightly advanced talk from Brij Mohan, Post-doc at QIQP group, IISER Mohali.

Speaker:  Dr. Brij Mohan, Post-doc at QIQP group, IISER Mohali, India

Title: Exact Quantum Speed Limits

Ref: Exact Quantum Speed Limits, [arXiv:2305.03839 (2023).](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03839)


**Abstract:**

    The traditional quantum speed limits are not attainable for many physical processes, as they tend to be loose and fail to determine the exact time taken by quantum systems to evolve. To address this, we derive exact quantum speed limits for the unitary dynamics of pure-state quantum system that outperform the existing quantum speed limits. Using these exact quantum speed limits, we can precisely estimate the evolution time for two- and higher-dimensional quantum systems. Additionally, for both finite- and infinite-dimensional quantum systems, we derive an improved Mandelstam-Tamm bound for pure states and show that this bound always saturates for any unitary generated by self-inverse Hamiltonians. Furthermore, we show that our speed limits establish an upper bound on the quantum computational circuit complexity. These results will have a significant impact on our understanding of quantum physics as well as rapidly developing quantum technologies, such as quantum computing, quantum control and quantum thermal machines. 

Hoping to see you all at the talk.

Cheers,

ISAQC team. 


***

#### Event Details:

<ul>
    <li> Date: [18 September 2023]</li>
    <li> Time: [02:00 PM IST to 04:00 PM IST] </li>
    <li> Venue: Vindhya A3-117 </li>
</ul>


